# Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)

Stores **Objects** (csv, parquet, JSON, etc) with a max size of 5 TB in **Buckets** with a **unique name** per region. To access data, network endpoints **Access points** attached to buckets can be created.  

Amazon S3 main purpose is to have storage capacity independently from computing.

1. **Life cycle** 
Buckets can be moved through different *S3 Storage Tiers* where Standard is for general purposes, going to Standard-Infrequent Access (IA), One Zone-Infrequent Access or Intelligent Tiering, which automatically move data across storage classes dependent on its use. For long-term achieve, Amazon Glacier can be used. 
These different **S3 Storage Classes** give the option to balance availability and price. Then, buckets can transition from Standard (frequent used) to less frequent following *transaction actions* and can be deleted with *expiration actions*.

2. **Data partitioning**
A bucket can have partitions (folders) which should be defined according to how the data is query, i.e year, month, date.
The partitioning can be handle by extra tools (i.e AWS Glue)

3. **Security**

- Encryption: data in transit is secured using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) or client-side encryption. Data at rest can be encrypted in the client of in the server using:
    - SSE-S3: Server Side managed by AWS
    - SSE-KMS: Server Side with key managed by the *Key Management Service* which can be monitored by the user. 
- Access: Security policies for Buckets and Access Points can be created at different levels.
    - User Base: Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies
    - Resource Base: Object Access Control List
    - Networking: VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) Endpoint Gateway


# References

- [AWS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/index.html)
- WITTIG, Michael; WITTIG, Andreas; WHALEY, Ben. Amazon web services in action. Second Edition. Manning, 2018.